---
title: How to not start a blog
#description: What you shouldn't do to start a blog
date: 2023-01-15 22:05
---

Well, here we are again: a new year, a new blog. I tried starting something in 2020 and didn't get very far. 2021 saw a revitalized attempt. I avoided such theatrics in 2022 until the summer, when I thought "this is the moment!" Obviously not.

So what went wrong? Well, that's a good question. One thing I definitely didn't do was engage in any sort of consistent practice. It was far too easy to say "I'm busy with work" or "I need to exercise" or... whatever. There was no consistency and no accountability.

Towards the end of last year I started to get a bit more serious with goal setting. I realize I needed to start keeping track of progress towards goals, otherwise it would be too easy to let things slip. (Maybe this is obvious in the personal development community, or obvious in general, but somehow there was finally a "lightbulb moment" for me.) So this year I decided to make it a goal to post one thing every month to my blog.

But as I'm writing this, I realize this could be taken to the extreme. What if I were to post every _day_? You shouldn't expect any sort of nobel prize writing here. Being a developer, it will most likely be a status update of what I've done in the previous day.

There are those interesting time-lapse videos of people aging ([e.g.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GJSdR96HIoY)) and I wonder what it would be like to do that here, but for the blog. I suppose that's something for tomorrow's Reed to talk about. And maybe a small discussion about how this site is hosted.