---
title: More experiments with docker
#description: 
date: 2023-02-14 21:05
---

I was playing with ChatGPT this morning and I wanted it to write an app for me. I told it to dockerize everything and that didn't go so well. It sort of got things working, but not quite. Sad times. I spent a bunch of time getting it running, most likely because I don't know what I'm doing.

Then I thought "it'd be great if I had some sort of template to start things off going forward". Some sort of known starting point where I can put a frontend, a backend, and a database. Everything should be dockerized, so that there's no nonsense in the source folders. So I created this [commit](https://github.com/deer/deno_examples/commit/192ee093bd392352fe072b9a9f1251015ee995e2). It's just a small starting point, but it at least allows a button to be clicked on the frontend that calls the backend.

Tomorrow I want to sort out a minimal interaction with the database. Maybe the mongo container will be preloaded with some data, and then the API call will read a sample document from the DB and return it to the frontend. The code for the frontend is also kind of hacky and partially written by our new overlord, Mr. GPT. I should probably fix that as well.

But such a template would serve as a really solid foundation for the other two classical apps: a todo list and a chat application. Both of these need a frontend, a backend, and a database.

Well, I've at least done something for today, although not entirely to completion. I suppose this is better than nothing, so I'll count it as a win.
